README.md, before:

# vscout-cli

The vscout suite is a group of scouting software for robotics competitions like VRC and FIRST. The original idea stemmed from the want/need for statistics, rankings and graphs at large events where many good teams are left unseen or misjudged. This is especially useful with a large amount of scouts in alliance situations. The vscout-cli provides a way of interacting with a database containing all the collected data.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Supported Systems:

```
Windows
MacOS
Linux
```

## Built With

* [Click](https://github.com/pallets/click/) - highly configurable package for building beautiful command line interfaces
* [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) - advanced, reliable and robust object-relational database

## Contributing

Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/seenrobotics/vscout-cli/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on our code of conduct, and the process for submitting pull requests to us.

## Authors

* **Sean D'Souza** - *Initial work and Maintainer* - [Sean D'Souza](https://github.com/seendsouza)

See also the list of [contributors](https://github.com/seenrobotics/vscout-cli/contributors) who participated in this project.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details

Commit message:

feat: add repo docs
Add Code of conduct, Contributing, Style guide, Tree hygiene, Values
files.
Modify links to be relative instead of absolute.

README.md, after:

# vscout-cli

The vscout suite is a group of scouting software for robotics competitions like VRC and FIRST. The original idea stemmed from the want/need for statistics, rankings and graphs at large events where many good teams are left unseen or misjudged. This is especially useful with a large amount of scouts in alliance situations. The vscout-cli provides a way of interacting with a database containing all the collected data.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Supported Systems:

```
Windows
MacOS
Linux
```

## Built With

* [Click](https://github.com/pallets/click/) - highly configurable package for building beautiful command line interfaces
* [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) - advanced, reliable and robust object-relational database

## Contributing

Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on our code of conduct, our style guide, how to write code for this repository, and the process for submitting pull requests to us.

## Authors

* **Sean D'Souza** - *Initial work and Maintainer* - [Sean D'Souza](https://github.com/seendsouza)

See also the list of [contributors](https://github.com/seenrobotics/vscout-cli/contributors) who participated in this project.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details
