docs/TREE_HYGIENE.md, before:

This page covers how to land a PR and other aspects of writing code for seenrobotics other than the actual writing of the code. For guidance on formatting your code, see the [Style guide](STYLE_GUIDE.md).

## Overview

The general process for submitting code to a seenrobotics repository is as follows:

1. Fork the repository on GitHub
2. If there is not already an issue covering the work you are interested in doing, and if you think the work you are doing is likely to be a non-trivial effort (e.g. you are creating a new feature, or otherwise introducing a new command, or intending to make a potentially breaking change, or refactoring a library), then file a new bug to describe the issue you are addressing.
3. If the work you are doing is likely to be a non-trivial effort (see above), then discuss your design on the issue. You may find it useful to create a Google Doc to solicit feedback. You may wish to e-mail the mailing list, or discuss the topic on the contributors [Gitter channel](https://gitter.im/seenrobotics/vscout-cli). The more buy-in you get from the rest of the team (especially the relevant leads), the easier the rest of the process will be. You can put the label "proposal" on your issue to indicate that you have a design up for discussion in the issue.
4. Create a branch on your GitHub fork of the repository, and implement your change.
5. You must follow the guidelines described in the [Style guide](STYLE_GUIDE.md).
6. Submit this branch as a PR to the relevant seenrobotics repository.
7. Get your code reviewed (see below). You should probably reach out to the relevant expert(s) for the areas you touched and ask them to review your PR directly. GitHub sometimes recommends specific reviewers; if you're not sure who to ask, that's probably a good place to start.
8. Make sure your PR passes all the pre-commit tests from Azure Piplelines.
9. Once everything is green and you have an LGTM, land your patch.
10. Watch the post-commit tests on the dashboard to make sure everything passes. If anything goes wrong, revert your patch and study the problem.

## Using git

Assuming your environment has been configured correctly, follow these steps to start working on a patch:

```bash
    git fetch upstream
    git checkout upstream/master -b name_of_your_branch
    Hack away.
    git commit -a -m "<your informative commit message>"
    git push origin name_of_your_branch
```

GitHub provides you with a link for submitting the pull request in the message output by git push.

Please make sure all your patches have detailed commit messages explaining what the problem was and what the solution is.
#TODO: EXPLAIN COMMIT MESSAGES

## Getting a code review

Every PR must be code-reviewed before check-in, including things like rolling a dependency. Getting a review means that a regular seenrobotics contributor (someone with commit access) has written a comment saying "LGTM" on your PR, and you have addressed all their feedback. ("LGTM" means "Looks Good To Me".)
Code review serves many critical purposes. There's the obvious purpose: catching errors. Even the most experienced engineers frequently make errors that are caught by code review. But there are also many other benefits of code reviews:
- It spreads knowledge among the team. Since every line of code will have been read by two people, it's more likely that once you move on, someone else will understand the code.
- It keeps you honest. Knowing that someone will be reading your code, you are less tempted to cut corners and more motivated to write code you are proud of.
- It exposes you to different modes of thinking. Your code reviewer has probably not thought about the problem in the same way you have, and so may have a fresh perspective and may find you a better way to solve the problem.
We recommend you consider these suggestions for addressing code review comments on your PR.
If you're working on a big patch, don't hesitate to get reviews early, before you're ready to check code in. Also, don't hesitate to ask for multiple people to review your code, and don't hesitate to provide unsolicited comments on other people's PRs. The more reviews the better.
A reviewer may in some circumstances consider the code satisfactory without having fully reviewed or understood it. If a reviewer has not fully reviewed the code, they admit to this by saying "RSLGTM" rather than just "LGTM". If you feel your code needs a real review, please find someone to actually review it. ("RSLGTM" means "Rubber Stamp Looks Good To Me".)

## How to review code

Reviewers should carefully read the code and make sure they understand it. A reviewer should check the code for both high level concerns, such as whether the code's structure makes sense, as well as readability and adherence to the [Style guide](STYLE_GUIDE.md). Use these best practices when reviewing code and providing comments.
As a reviewer, you are the last line of defense. Take a step back. What problem is the PR trying to solve? Is it a real problem? What other solutions could we consider? What could we do to make this even better?
Once you are satisfied with the contribution, and only once you are satisfied, write a comment that includes the phrase LGTM (or use the GitHub "Approval" mechanism). If you feel like you are being worn down, hand the review to someone else. Consider our [conflict resolution policy](../CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) if you feel like you are being forced to agree to something you don't like.
Reviewers should not give an LGTM unless the patch has tests that verify all the affected code, or unless a test would make no sense. If you review a patch, you are sharing the responsibility for the patch with its author. You should only give an LGTM if you would feel confident answering questions about the code.
If you are 100% sure the patch is good and has no issues but you haven't really fully reviewed or understood it, you can give it a rubber-stamp review by marking it RSLGTM. If you mark a patch as RSLGTM, you are still sharing the responsibility for the patch with its author. Reviewing a patch as RSLGTM should be a rare event.

## Landing a patch

Once you have submitted your patch and received your LGTM, if you do not have commit access to the repository yet, then wait for one of the project maintainers to submit it for you.
If you do have access, you can just click the green "Merge pull request" button on the GitHub UI of your pull request. Please squash commits (GitHub does this for you by default normally).
When you squash commits, by default, GitHub will concatenate all your commit messages to form a unified commit message. This often yields an overly verbose commit message with many unhelpful entries (e.g. "fix typo"). Please double-check (and hand-edit if necessary) your commit message before merging such that the message contains a helpful description of the overall change.

## Regressions in functionality

If a check-in has caused a regression on the trunk, roll back the check-in (even if it isn't yours) unless doing so would take longer than fixing the bug. When the trunk is broken, it slows down everyone else on the project.

If things are broken, the priority of everyone on the team should be helping the team fix the problem. Someone should own the issue, and they can delegate responsibilities to others on the team. Once the problem is resolved, write a postmortem. Postmortems are about documenting what went wrong and how to avoid the problem (and the entire class of problems like it) from recurring in the future. Postmortems are emphatically not about assigning blame. These postmortems go in the [/docs/postmortems folder](postmortems/) with this filename format in the markdown format:

`YYYY_MM_DD_postmortem_title.md`

Any images for these postmortems go in the [/docs/postmortems/img](postmortems/img/) folder with this filename format:

`YYYY_MM_DD_postmortem_img_title.jpg`

There is no shame in making mistakes.


## Revert commits

Avoid "Revert "Revert "Revert "Revert "Fix foo"""" commit messages
Please limit yourself to one "Revert" per commit message, otherwise we won't have any idea what is actually landing. Is it putting us back to where we were before? Is it adding new code? Is it a controversial new feature that actually caused a regression before but is now fixed (we hope)?
Only use "Revert" if you are actually returning us to a known-good state. When you later revert the revert, just land the PR afresh with the original commit message, possibly updated with the information since collected (and ideally, including a link to the original PR and to the revert PR so that people can follow the breadcrumbs later).

# Handling breaking changes

In general, we want to avoid making changes to vscout that force developers and users to change in order to upgrade to new versions of the software. Sometimes, however, doing this is necessary for the greater good. In those cases, to make a change that will require developers to change their code:
Send a message to  the [Gitter channel](https://gitter.im/seenrobotics/vscout-cli) to socialize your proposed change. The purpose of this message is to see if you can get consensus around your change from the vscout developers with repository access. You are not telling people that the change will happen, you are asking them for permission. The message should include the following:
- A subject line that clearly summarizes the proposed change and sounds like it matters (so that people can spot these e-mails among the noise). Prefix the subject line with [Breaking Change].
- A summary of each change you propose.
- A brief justification for the change.
- A link to the relevant issue, and any PRs you may have already posted relating to this change.
- Clear mechanical steps for porting the code from the old form to the new form, if possible. If not possible, clear steps for figuring out how to port the code.
- A sincere offer to help port code, which includes the preferred venue for contacting the person who made the change.
- A request that people notify you if this change will be a problem, perhaps by discussing the change in the issue tracker on the pull request.
- You may not have permission to post to this list yet. If you do not, please contact [Sean](mailto:seangdsouza@gmail.com).

If the vscout developers agree that the benefits of changing the program outweigh the stability costs, you can proceed with the normal code review process for making changes. You should leave some time between steps 2 and 3 (at a bare minimum 24 hours during the work week so that people in all time zones have had a chance to see it, but ideally a week or so).

Where possible, even "breaking" changes should be made in a backwards-compatible way. When doing this, include a description of how to transition in the deprecation notice, for example:
```python
class FooInterface():
    """
    Deprecated: 'FooInterface has been deprecated because ...; it is recommended that you transition to the new FooDelegate.'
    """
```

If you use deprecated, make sure to remember to actually remove the feature a few months later (after the next stable release), do not just leave it forever!

Commit message:

docs: add Conventional Commits spec
Add Conventional Commits to Tree Hygiene

docs/TREE_HYGIENE.md, after:

This page covers how to land a PR and other aspects of writing code for seenrobotics other than the actual writing of the code. For guidance on formatting your code, see the [Style guide](STYLE_GUIDE.md).

## Overview

The general process for submitting code to a seenrobotics repository is as follows:

1. Fork the repository on GitHub
2. If there is not already an issue covering the work you are interested in doing, and if you think the work you are doing is likely to be a non-trivial effort (e.g. you are creating a new feature, or otherwise introducing a new command, or intending to make a potentially breaking change, or refactoring a library), then file a new bug to describe the issue you are addressing.
3. If the work you are doing is likely to be a non-trivial effort (see above), then discuss your design on the issue. You may find it useful to create a Google Doc to solicit feedback. You may wish to e-mail the mailing list, or discuss the topic on the contributors [Gitter channel](https://gitter.im/seenrobotics/vscout-cli). The more buy-in you get from the rest of the team (especially the relevant leads), the easier the rest of the process will be. You can put the label "proposal" on your issue to indicate that you have a design up for discussion in the issue.
4. Create a branch on your GitHub fork of the repository, and implement your change.
5. You must follow the guidelines described in the [Style guide](STYLE_GUIDE.md).
6. Submit this branch as a PR to the relevant seenrobotics repository.
7. Get your code reviewed (see below). You should probably reach out to the relevant expert(s) for the areas you touched and ask them to review your PR directly. GitHub sometimes recommends specific reviewers; if you're not sure who to ask, that's probably a good place to start.
8. Make sure your PR passes all the pre-commit tests from Azure Piplelines.
9. Once everything is green and you have an LGTM, land your patch.
10. Watch the post-commit tests on the dashboard to make sure everything passes. If anything goes wrong, revert your patch and study the problem.

## Using git

Assuming your environment has been configured correctly, follow these steps to start working on a patch:

```bash
    git fetch upstream
    git checkout upstream/master -b name_of_your_branch
    Hack away.
    git commit -a -m "<your informative commit message>"
    git push origin name_of_your_branch
```

GitHub provides you with a link for submitting the pull request in the message output by git push.

Please make sure all your patches have detailed commit messages explaining what the problem was and what the solution is.

## Commit Messages

The repository's log of git history shows commits either by the first 50 characters or in more detail with each commit message. Going through the log should be similar to reading a story. In order to do this, our commit messages are specifically structured in order to aid those looking back at the commit history.
We use the Conventional Commits specification to write our commit messages, which can be found [here](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0-beta.4/).

## Getting a code review

Every PR must be code-reviewed before check-in, including things like rolling a dependency. Getting a review means that a regular seenrobotics contributor (someone with commit access) has written a comment saying "LGTM" on your PR, and you have addressed all their feedback. ("LGTM" means "Looks Good To Me".)
Code review serves many critical purposes. There's the obvious purpose: catching errors. Even the most experienced engineers frequently make errors that are caught by code review. But there are also many other benefits of code reviews:
- It spreads knowledge among the team. Since every line of code will have been read by two people, it's more likely that once you move on, someone else will understand the code.
- It keeps you honest. Knowing that someone will be reading your code, you are less tempted to cut corners and more motivated to write code you are proud of.
- It exposes you to different modes of thinking. Your code reviewer has probably not thought about the problem in the same way you have, and so may have a fresh perspective and may find you a better way to solve the problem.
We recommend you consider these suggestions for addressing code review comments on your PR.
If you're working on a big patch, don't hesitate to get reviews early, before you're ready to check code in. Also, don't hesitate to ask for multiple people to review your code, and don't hesitate to provide unsolicited comments on other people's PRs. The more reviews the better.
A reviewer may in some circumstances consider the code satisfactory without having fully reviewed or understood it. If a reviewer has not fully reviewed the code, they admit to this by saying "RSLGTM" rather than just "LGTM". If you feel your code needs a real review, please find someone to actually review it. ("RSLGTM" means "Rubber Stamp Looks Good To Me".)

## How to review code

Reviewers should carefully read the code and make sure they understand it. A reviewer should check the code for both high level concerns, such as whether the code's structure makes sense, as well as readability and adherence to the [Style guide](STYLE_GUIDE.md). Use these best practices when reviewing code and providing comments.
As a reviewer, you are the last line of defense. Take a step back. What problem is the PR trying to solve? Is it a real problem? What other solutions could we consider? What could we do to make this even better?
Once you are satisfied with the contribution, and only once you are satisfied, write a comment that includes the phrase LGTM (or use the GitHub "Approval" mechanism). If you feel like you are being worn down, hand the review to someone else. Consider our [conflict resolution policy](../CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) if you feel like you are being forced to agree to something you don't like.
Reviewers should not give an LGTM unless the patch has tests that verify all the affected code, or unless a test would make no sense. If you review a patch, you are sharing the responsibility for the patch with its author. You should only give an LGTM if you would feel confident answering questions about the code.
If you are 100% sure the patch is good and has no issues but you haven't really fully reviewed or understood it, you can give it a rubber-stamp review by marking it RSLGTM. If you mark a patch as RSLGTM, you are still sharing the responsibility for the patch with its author. Reviewing a patch as RSLGTM should be a rare event.

## Landing a patch

Once you have submitted your patch and received your LGTM, if you do not have commit access to the repository yet, then wait for one of the project maintainers to submit it for you.
If you do have access, you can just click the green "Merge pull request" button on the GitHub UI of your pull request. Please squash commits (GitHub does this for you by default normally).
When you squash commits, by default, GitHub will concatenate all your commit messages to form a unified commit message. This often yields an overly verbose commit message with many unhelpful entries (e.g. "fix typo"). Please double-check (and hand-edit if necessary) your commit message before merging such that the message contains a helpful description of the overall change.

## Regressions in functionality

If a check-in has caused a regression on the trunk, roll back the check-in (even if it isn't yours) unless doing so would take longer than fixing the bug. When the trunk is broken, it slows down everyone else on the project.

If things are broken, the priority of everyone on the team should be helping the team fix the problem. Someone should own the issue, and they can delegate responsibilities to others on the team. Once the problem is resolved, write a postmortem. Postmortems are about documenting what went wrong and how to avoid the problem (and the entire class of problems like it) from recurring in the future. Postmortems are emphatically not about assigning blame. These postmortems go in the [/docs/postmortems folder](postmortems/) with this filename format in the markdown format:

`YYYY_MM_DD_postmortem_title.md`

Any images for these postmortems go in the [/docs/postmortems/img](postmortems/img/) folder with this filename format:

`YYYY_MM_DD_postmortem_img_title.jpg`

There is no shame in making mistakes.


## Revert commits

Avoid "Revert "Revert "Revert "Revert "Fix foo"""" commit messages
Please limit yourself to one "Revert" per commit message, otherwise we won't have any idea what is actually landing. Is it putting us back to where we were before? Is it adding new code? Is it a controversial new feature that actually caused a regression before but is now fixed (we hope)?
Only use "Revert" if you are actually returning us to a known-good state. When you later revert the revert, just land the PR afresh with the original commit message, possibly updated with the information since collected (and ideally, including a link to the original PR and to the revert PR so that people can follow the breadcrumbs later).

# Handling breaking changes

In general, we want to avoid making changes to vscout that force developers and users to change in order to upgrade to new versions of the software. Sometimes, however, doing this is necessary for the greater good. In those cases, to make a change that will require developers to change their code:
Send a message to  the [Gitter channel](https://gitter.im/seenrobotics/vscout-cli) to socialize your proposed change. The purpose of this message is to see if you can get consensus around your change from the vscout developers with repository access. You are not telling people that the change will happen, you are asking them for permission. The message should include the following:
- A subject line that clearly summarizes the proposed change and sounds like it matters (so that people can spot these e-mails among the noise). Prefix the subject line with [Breaking Change].
- A summary of each change you propose.
- A brief justification for the change.
- A link to the relevant issue, and any PRs you may have already posted relating to this change.
- Clear mechanical steps for porting the code from the old form to the new form, if possible. If not possible, clear steps for figuring out how to port the code.
- A sincere offer to help port code, which includes the preferred venue for contacting the person who made the change.
- A request that people notify you if this change will be a problem, perhaps by discussing the change in the issue tracker on the pull request.
- You may not have permission to post to this list yet. If you do not, please contact [Sean](mailto:seangdsouza@gmail.com).

If the vscout developers agree that the benefits of changing the program outweigh the stability costs, you can proceed with the normal code review process for making changes. You should leave some time between steps 2 and 3 (at a bare minimum 24 hours during the work week so that people in all time zones have had a chance to see it, but ideally a week or so).

Where possible, even "breaking" changes should be made in a backwards-compatible way. When doing this, include a description of how to transition in the deprecation notice, for example:
```python
class FooInterface():
    """
    Deprecated: 'FooInterface has been deprecated because ...; it is recommended that you transition to the new FooDelegate.'
    """
```

If you use deprecated, make sure to remember to actually remove the feature a few months later (after the next stable release), do not just leave it forever!
